README.md, before:

# Process Orchestrator

A flexible process orchestration system that manages and monitors the execution of commands across multiple files.

## Features

- Run commands on multiple input files with templated arguments
- Configure input/output handling with YAML configuration
- Monitor process execution and resource usage
- Support for output file suffixes
- Flexible command-line argument templating

## Configuration

The system uses YAML configuration files to define process execution parameters. Here's an example:

```yaml
binary:
  path: /usr/bin/ffmpeg  # Path to the binary to execute
  flags:  # Command line flags with templated variables
    - "-i"
    - "{input_file}"  # Will be replaced with actual input file
    - "-vf"
    - "scale=1280:720"
    - "{output_file}"  # Will be replaced with output file path

directories:
  input_file_list: /path/to/input_files.txt  # File containing list of input files to process
  output_dir: /path/to/output  # Directory where processed files will be saved
  output_suffix: _720p  # Optional suffix to add to output files
```

The `input_file_list` should contain one file path per line, for example:

```text
/path/to/video1.mp4
/path/to/video2.mp4
/path/to/video3.mp4
```

## Usage

1. Create a configuration file (e.g., `config.yaml`) with your desired settings
2. Create a text file listing the input files to process
3. Run the orchestrator:

```bash
python -m orchestrator.process_manager --config config.yaml
```

## Command Templates

The system supports variable substitution in command flags:

- `{input_file}`: Replaced with the current input file being processed
- `{output_file}`: Replaced with the generated output file path

For example, if processing `/data/video1.mp4` with output suffix `_720p`, the command:

```yaml
flags:
  - "-i"
  - "{input_file}"
  - "{output_file}"
```

Would expand to:

```bash
-i /data/video1.mp4 /path/to/output/video1_720p.mp4
```

## Error Handling

The system includes error handling for:
- Missing or invalid input files
- Command execution failures
- Resource monitoring issues

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
pytest tests/
```

### Code Style

The project uses:
- YAPF for code formatting
- Pylint for code quality
- Pre-commit hooks for consistency

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

Improve resource calibration with active monitoring
- Replace time.sleep() with active CPU usage monitoring
- Add comprehensive test suite for resource calibration
- Handle edge cases for zero memory usage and missing CPU count
- Improve error handling and logging
- Add test coverage for all calibration scenarios
- Fix code style issues and imports
- Update YAPF configuration to use project style

README.md, after:

# Process Orchestrator

A flexible process orchestration system that manages and monitors the execution of commands across multiple files.

## Features

- Run commands on multiple input files with templated arguments
- Configure input/output handling with YAML configuration
- Monitor process execution and resource usage
- Support for output file suffixes
- Flexible command-line argument templating

## Configuration

The system uses YAML configuration files to define process execution parameters. Here's an example:

```yaml
binary:
  path: /usr/bin/ffmpeg  # Path to the binary to execute
  flags:  # Command line flags with templated variables
    - "-i"
    - "{input_file}"  # Will be replaced with actual input file
    - "-vf"
    - "scale=1280:720"
    - "{output_file}"  # Will be replaced with output file path

directories:
  input_file_list: /path/to/input_files.txt  # File containing list of input files to process
  output_dir: /path/to/output  # Directory where processed files will be saved
  output_suffix: _720p  # Optional suffix to add to output files
```

The `input_file_list` should contain one file path per line, for example:

```text
/path/to/video1.mp4
/path/to/video2.mp4
/path/to/video3.mp4
```

## Usage

1. Create a configuration file (e.g., `config.yaml`) with your desired settings
2. Create a text file listing the input files to process
3. Run the orchestrator:

```bash
python -m orchestrator.process_manager --config config.yaml
```

## Command Templates

The system supports variable substitution in command flags:

- `{input_file}`: Replaced with the current input file being processed
- `{output_file}`: Replaced with the generated output file path

For example, if processing `/data/video1.mp4` with output suffix `_720p`, the command:

```yaml
flags:
  - "-i"
  - "{input_file}"
  - "{output_file}"
```

Would expand to:

```bash
-i /data/video1.mp4 /path/to/output/video1_720p.mp4
```

## Resource Management

The system automatically calibrates resource usage by running a test process at startup. This ensures optimal utilization of system resources while maintaining stability.

### Calibration Process

1. **Initial Test Run**: The system runs a single process with one input file to measure resource usage.
2. **Resource Measurement**: After a 5-second stabilization period, it measures:
   - CPU usage per process
   - Memory usage (RSS)
   - Estimated output file size

### Automatic Scaling

The system calculates the maximum number of parallel processes based on three constraints:

1. **CPU Cores**: Uses up to 80% of available CPU cores
   - Example: On a 32-core system, if each process uses 1 core, it may run up to 25 processes

2. **Memory**: Ensures processes won't exceed 80% of available system memory
   - Example: If each process uses 1GB and system has 32GB, it may run up to 25 processes

3. **Disk Space**: Ensures output files won't exceed 80% of available disk space
   - Example: If each output file is 1GB and 100GB is free, it may run up to 80 processes

The system uses the minimum of these three constraints to determine the final maximum process count, ensuring safe and efficient resource utilization.

## Error Handling

The system includes error handling for:
- Missing or invalid input files
- Command execution failures
- Resource monitoring issues

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
pytest tests/
```

### Code Style

The project uses:
- YAPF for code formatting
- Pylint for code quality
- Pre-commit hooks for consistency

## License

MIT License
